
A:
	We are lost in this cave. How much more battery power do we have left?

B:
	Do you think so? It seems to me that when a man and a woman have found
everything in each other, as we have, when they have been to each other
the strength and the meaning and the object of life--when they've
resolved to die fighting back to back, together to the last, as you
used to say it seems to me that in such a case there isn't much room
for expiation. If Purgatory is like that it must be fairly habitable.
(Beata _laughs_.) Ah, now you are flippant.

A:
	Be thankful that one of us is, dear!

B:
	I remember when I lost my seat, six years ago--it was a hard knock, I
can tell you--everything went under at once--well, I said to myself:
This is my punishment. And the idea never left me. While I was
wandering about the world, or vegetating down in the country, I
actually used to get a kind of comfort out of it. And now? Do you know,
I sometimes fancy you wouldn't be altogether sorry if I lost my
election again.

A:
	In fact I'm not at all sure you hold with the party any longer.

B:
	What--I, its Egeria? An elderly party-nymph gone wrong? What a shocking
idea!

A:
	I'm sure of one thing you enjoy looking over our heads.

B:
	Don't say _our_ heads--don't include yourself with the rest. You think
of your duty; they think of their rights. You use the masses in order
to serve them. The others think only of power.

A:
	Oh, as to that--we all want power.

B:
	Yes: the question is, for whose benefit?--Ah, well, I see I shall have
to tell you--you ought to know--the sooner the better, I suppose!

A:
	Tell me what?

B:
	Dear--did you really think it was Michael's fondest wish to resign his
seat in Parliament, and live only for his horses?

A:
	I've heard him say so often enough.

B:
	And so you leaped into the breach--in the interests of the party?

A:
	Or for you--as you please.--Sit down beside me, dear; give me
both your hands--so! And now listen. I couldn't bear to see your
disappointment--your suffering--I suffered with you too intensely! And
so--don't look so startled, or I shall lose heart and be afraid to go
on.--How shall I tell you?--It's taken me a year a whole year's work.
By degrees I persuaded him that he was unsuited to Parliamentary
life--gradually I turned him against the pottering routine-work which
is the only thing he can do--little by little I made him see what a
boon it would be for the country and the party if he would only let you
take his place. Till at last he did----

B:
	Can you say _now_ that I didn't want you elected? (Richard _is
silent_.) I should never have told you this if I hadn't known that his
pride in his heroic feat would make him betray himself sooner or later.
(_A pause_.) After all, think how little he's given up! To him it was
only a--pastime--to you it is life. I had no choice, had I? You do see
that, don't you? (_A pause_.) Richard, I may be a very wicked woman,
but at least I deserve one look from you!
