
A:
	I can't believe you threw that ball over the fence. Now you're going to have to go into that dark, scary, spooky forest all by yourself!

B:
	You take care of me! You stay safe, and send me into every kind of
danger. You sent me down the cliff for gulls’ eggs while you warmed
your blind eyes in the sun; and then you ate all that were good for
food. You left me the eggs that were neither egg nor bird. [_BLIND MAN
tries to rise; FOOL makes him lie down again._] Keep quiet now, till
I shut the door. There is some noise outside—a high vexing noise,
so that I can’t be listening to myself. [_Shuts the big door._] Why
can’t they be quiet! why can’t they be quiet! [_BLIND MAN tries to get
away._] Ah! you would get away, would you! [_Follows BLIND MAN and
brings him back._] Lie there! lie there! No, you won’t get away! Lie
there till the kings come. I’ll tell them all about you. I will tell it
all. How you sit warming yourself, when you have made me light a fire
of sticks, while I sit blowing it with my mouth. Do you not always make
me take the windy side of the bush when it blows, and the rainy side
when it rains?

A:
	Oh, good Fool! listen to me. Think of the care I have taken of you. I
have brought you to many a warm hearth, where there was a good welcome
for you, but you would not stay there; you were always wandering about.

B:
	The last time you brought me in it was not I who wandered away, but
you that got put out because you took the crubeen out of the pot when
nobody was looking. Keep quiet, now!

A:
	Listen to me, Cuchulain. I left him turning the fowl at the fire. He
ate it all, though I had stolen it. He left me nothing but the feathers.

B:
	Fill me a horn of ale!

A:
	I gave him what he likes best. You do not know how vain this fool is.
He likes nothing so well as a feather.

B:
	He left me nothing but the bones and feathers. Nothing but the
feathers, though I had stolen it.

A:
	Give me that horn! Quarrels here, too! [_Drinks._] What is there
between you two that is worth a quarrel? Out with it!

B:
	Where would he be but for me? I must be always thinking—thinking to get
food for the two of us, and when we’ve got it, if the moon is at the
full or the tide on the turn, he’ll leave the rabbit in the snare till
it is full of maggots, or let the trout slip back through his hands
into the stream.

A:
	Listen to him, now. That’s the sort of talk I have to put up with day
out, day in.

B:
	He has taken my feathers to wipe his sword. It is blood that he is
wiping from his sword.

A:
	[_Goes up to door at back and throws away feathers._]

B:
	It is that young champion that he has killed. He that came out of
Aoife’s country.

A:
	He thought to have saved himself with witchcraft.

B:
	That blind man there said he would kill you. He came from Aoife’s
country to kill you. That blind man said they had taught him every kind
of weapon that he might do it. But I always knew that you would kill
him.
